Fix for https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-masvs/issues/203 (#1451)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x06f-Testing-Local-Authentication.md

    }
```

> Now we can request the saved item from the keychain. keychain services will present the authentication dialog to the user and return data or nil depending on whether a suitable fingerprint was provided or not.

Reviewer: Uppercase here because it starts the sentence

```suggestion
Now we can request the saved item from the keychain. Keychain services will present the authentication dialog to the user and return data or nil depending on whether a suitable fingerprint was provided or not.
```

#### Static Analysis

It is important to remember that Local Authentication framework is an event-based procedure and as such, should not be the sole method of authentication. Though this type of authentication is effective on the user-interface level, it is easily bypassed through patching or instrumentation. Therefore, it is best to use the Keychain service method. Which means you should:

- Verify that sensitive processes, such as re-authenticating a user triggering a payment transaction, are protected using the Keychain services method.
- Verify that access control flags are set for the keychain entry which ensure that the keychain item its data can only be unlocked by means of authenticating the user. This can be with one of the following flags:

>   - `kSecAccessControlTouchIDCurrentSet`(since iOS 11.3 `kSecAccessControlBiometryCurrentSet`). This will make sure that a user needs to authenticate with his biometrics (e.g. Face ID or Touch ID)before he can access the data in the Keychain entry. Whenever the user adds a fingerprint or facial representation to the device, it will automatically invalidate the entry in the Keychain. This makes sure that the Keychain-entry is protected against adversarial additions to the Keychain.

Reviewer: I'd rather give preference to the new stuff. I'd switch the first part and write (before iOS 11.3 `...TouchID...`)

>   - `kSecAccessControlTouchIDAny` (since iOS 11.3 `kSecAccessControlBiometryAny`). This will make sure that a user needs to authenticate with his biometrics (e.g. Face ID or Touch ID)before he can access the data in the Keychain entry. The Keychain-entry will survive any (re-)enroling of new fingerprints or facial representation. This can be very practical if the user has a changing fingerprint (which happens in case of lumberjackers for instance). However, it also means that attackers, who are somehow able to enrole their fingerprints or facial representations to the device, can now access those entries as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `kSecAccessControlTouchIDAny` (since iOS 11.3 `kSecAccessControlBiometryAny`). This will make sure that a user needs to authenticate with his biometrics (e.g. Face ID or Touch ID) before he can access the data in the Keychain entry. The Keychain entry will survive any (re-)enroling of new fingerprints or facial representation. This can be very practical if the user has a changing fingerprint. However, it also means that attackers, who are somehow able to enrole their fingerprints or facial representations to the device, can now access those entries as well.
```

Reviewer: Some corrections and pun removed. I hope that's ok.

Reviewer: I'd rather give preference to the new stuff. I'd switch the first part and write (before iOS 11.3 `...TouchID...`)

Author: > Some corrections and pun removed. I hope that's ok.

well it was no pun, it is actually a known fact that people working with wood have this problem. But will keep that out then :).

>   - `kSecAccessControlTouchIDAny` (since iOS 11.3 `kSecAccessControlBiometryAny`). This will make sure that a user needs to authenticate with his biometrics (e.g. Face ID or Touch ID)before he can access the data in the Keychain entry. The Keychain-entry will survive any (re-)enroling of new fingerprints or facial representation. This can be very practical if the user has a changing fingerprint (which happens in case of lumberjackers for instance). However, it also means that attackers, who are somehow able to enrole their fingerprints or facial representations to the device, can now access those entries as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `kSecAccessControlBiometryAny` (before iOS 11.3 `kSecAccessControlTouchIDAny`). This will make sure that a user needs to authenticate with his biometrics (e.g. Face ID or Touch ID) before he can access the data in the Keychain entry. The Keychain-entry will survive any (re-)enrolling of new fingerprints or appearances. This can prevent negative feedback from users who are disgruntled that updating their Face ID or Touch ID settings forced them to re-enrol into the application. However, it also means that attackers, who are somehow able to enrol their fingerprints or appearance to the device, can now access those entries as well.
```

>   - `kSecAccessControlUserPresence` can be used as an alternative. This will allow the user to authenticate himself through a PassCode if the biometric authentication no longer works.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `kSecAccessControlUserPresence` can be used as an alternative. This will allow the user to authenticate himself through a PassCode if the biometric authentication no longer works. This is considered to be weaker than kSecAccessControlBiometryAny since it is much easier to steal someone's pincode by seeing them enter it, than it is to bypass the Touch ID or Face ID service.
```

>   - `kSecAccessControlUserPresence` can be used as an alternative. This will allow the user to authenticate himself through a PassCode if the biometric authentication no longer works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `kSecAccessControlUserPresence` can be used as an alternative. This will allow the user to authenticate through a passcode if the biometric authentication no longer works.
```

> - Verify that `kSecAttrAccessibleWhenPasscodeSetThisDeviceOnly` protection class is set when the `SecAccessControlCreateWithFlags` method is called to ensure that the device is at least protected with a passcode and that the keychain entries can therefore be secured.

Reviewer 2: The previous stuff is explanation on the flags, while this is a recommendation. You als can't have Touch ID or Face ID without having a pincode. I would rephrase to fit the style of the previous bullets and explain when you can use it.

Author: They're both recomendations to me though , but i will rewrite it a bit ;-)

> - Verify that `kSecAttrAccessibleWhenPasscodeSetThisDeviceOnly` protection class is set when the `SecAccessControlCreateWithFlags` method is called to ensure that the device is at least protected with a passcode and that the keychain entries can therefore be secured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Verify that `kSecAttrAccessibleWhenPasscodeSetThisDeviceOnly` protection class is set when the `SecAccessControlCreateWithFlags` method is called to ensure that the device is at least protected with a passcode and that the Keychain entries can therefore be secured.
```

Reviewer: Have we at this point already explained what "protection classes" are ?

Author: I did now, thanks!

- Verify that sensitive processes, such as re-authenticating a user triggering a payment transaction, are protected using the Keychain services method.

> - Verify that the `kSecAccessControlTouchIDAny` or `kSecAccessControlTouchIDCurrentSet` flags are set and `kSecAttrAccessibleWhenPasscodeSetThisDeviceOnly` protection classes are set when the `SecAccessControlCreateWithFlags` method is called. Note that, alternatively, `kSecAccessControlUserPresence` can be used as a flag as well when you want to be able to use passcode as a fallback. Last, note that, when `kSecAccessControlTouchIDCurrentSet` is set, changing the fingerprints registered to the device will invalidate the entry which is protected with the flag.

Reviewer: Some remarks:
- I can't find an explanation on why we should test for kSecAccessControlTouchIDAny (or the other flags) being set
- kSecAccessControlTouchIDAny is since iOS 11.3 deprecated, use kSecAccessControlBiometryAny instead.

Author: Thanks! Updated it :).

> Please note that using `kSecAccessControlTouchIDAny` will allow the keymaterial to be used when the user (re-)enroles new fingerprints, but it will mean that attackers who are somehow able to enrole their fingerprints to the device, now can access items that use this flag as well.

Reviewer: Keep it consistent by referring to "entries". Split and made the sentences shorter.

```suggestion
Please note that using `kSecAccessControlTouchIDAny` will allow the entry to be used when the user (re-)enroles new fingerprints. However, it means also that attackers, who are somehow able to enrole their fingerprints to the device, can now access those entries as well.
```

Reviewer 2: Modified your comment for a grammar improvement since I can't propose a new commit suggestion on top of yours.
